# Dr Leo Chen (BSc, MSc, PhD, CEng, FIMechE, FHEA, SMIEEE, MIET) 

Dr Chen (M'10-SM'17) received the B.Sc degree in Automotive Engineering from Chongqing University of Technology, in 2000, the M.Sc. degree in Automotive Engineering from Chongqing University, in 2004, and the Ph.D. degrees in Mechanical Engineering from University of Glasgow, in 2010. He has been taking a leading role in the previous and current department to maintain cross-disciplinary research links, and develop external research collaborations both nationally and internationally. He has been leading a few research grants in the areas of artificial intelligence, high-performance computing, robotics and autonomous systems, and studies in multi-disciplinary contexts. 


Dr Chen has a high-level output of research publications in leading international journals and presentations at international conferences, which related to the research area of robotics, digital manufacturing, and industry 4.0, which demonstrates significant research and grant potential in engineering and cross-disciplinary applications. He is a member of IET, AAAI, AIAA, and ASME, a fellow of HEA, and a fellow of IMechE. He is also a Chartered Engineer. 


Dr Chen has published over 100 academic papers in both high impact international academic journal and international conferences, 20+ invited seminars and talks, 10+ authorized patents, and has been selected as a Publons' top 1% of reviewers in Computer Science and Engineering and Book manuscripts reviewer for Publishers, including: Springer, Elsevier, IEEE, Cambridge University Press, CRC Press. He has been actively involved in both academic research and KTP projects as PI and CoI funded by EPSRC (UK), Horizon2020 (EU), NSFC (China), National Key Research and Development Program of China, SAFEA: High-End Foreign Experts Project, and Industrial funding bodies. Dr Chen has been the Programme Committee member or organiser for over 10+ international conferences, including IEEE/ASME/ACM/Springer conferences. For example, as of the co-organiser of the WCCI'16 Special Session on Computational Intelligence for Industry 4.0 and CEC'19 Special Session on Evolutionary Computation for Creativity, Manufacture and Engineering Management in the Industry 4.0 Era. Besides, he is an editorial board member of a high-impact journal (CAS JCR Q2) , and he has been a guest editor for five special issues. Dr Chen has graduated 2 PhD and 30+ MSc research students, is supervising 2 PhD students, and has examined over 30+ PhD/MSc students' theses as both internal and external examiner. 

https://leoyichen.github.io/
